Thank you very much, thank you for coming again to make such a big effort and to put all the
activities on the side and kind of put all different things together and then come to the retreat
as always.
I don't think you have to forget this. Thank you very much for your beautiful effort and dedication
for this beautiful spiritual virtuous activities that are really wonderful.
Generally, in our life we have so many beautiful activities that we do, but this is what we are
doing.
The spiritual activity, virtuous activity, is one of the very beautiful, stone-standing practices
or activities in our life.
According to the teaching of the many great masters of Buddha, all of that, with rituals and
spiritual activity, when we do, it's really going to connect and benefit for us a long time.
Not just only for short temporary kind of benefit to our subjects, to others, but it's a long-
lasting benefit.
That which means Buddhism that you all know, I think you all know, life is not just a cave here,
new. Our life is not just a beginning or a life.
Like a beginning, knowledge is not the last. It's one of the chain of life we go through, one after
another. This is one of the life.
Whatever activity we do, we connect with the spiritual, it will carry for a long time as a ripple
after throughout our lives.
Not just only spiritual activity, our every action of what we do, it really will, according to the
teaching of the Buddhism, it will go a long way.
And that which is known as a formally Karma. Karma is not just a cave suddenly that happened,
or nor is somebody bought and put for our Lord to ask. It is something that activity we created and
we continually carry.
We can experience the result of whatever it is, whether it is good or bad.
The spiritual activity, which means again Dharma. Dharma is what? Actually what we are talking of,
Dharma, Dharma, Dharma.
In the Buddhism, Dharma means our own true nature of the mind. And what is true nature of our own
mind?
According to the again teaching, our true nature is loving kindness, compassion, wisdom, the
openness mind, that is really the nature of the mind.
Whatever activity we do, and reflect that beautiful nature, love and kindness, compassion, openness
, and wisdom, today it is the virtuous activities.
It bread immediately result to one's own self, bring joy and peace, hunger.
It will balance all those troublesome elements, stressfulness and anxieties and so it will subside
that.
It brings our inner beauty and the garden. Let the shine as the sun shine and begin to spread out
all, all, everywhere.
And we kind of swing with that beautiful attitude and thought, known as you all know the body, then
it goes power.
Power, then what we can imagine, it goes power.
According to the Buddha's teaching, it really goes power to the effortless states.
And not just going at that time, but it will go continually to the effortless states.
Power and power and long lasting. So therefore, spiritual activity is one of the very beautiful
activities that we can do in our life,
which is standing tall and firm, strong to our nature and benefits to the others and to our self.
And today we are going to the highlight of the brain flex.
A little bit called the Guntha. In English, it is highlighted as wind force practices.
Wind force practices or the Guntha or the breathing of this breath flex are one of the beautiful,
really, again, spiritual or the Dharma activities that we can do.
We can do. So I'd like to talk a brief introduction of this, this breath flex.
Generally, according to the Buddha's teaching, it is so important to have.
Whatever spiritual activity, Dharma activity we do, it is a beautiful motivation.
Motivation is so important. It is a foundation. It is a vital essence. It is a central column.
And therefore, a beautiful motivation. A breath of joy and appreciation.
This is not just only the breath flex time, but or raising up the breath flex time.
But always, every day when we get up, every day we remember that.
The remote joy and appreciation. Life is a breath. Still this breath is breathing, breathing is
breathing, breathing.
It's beautiful. Every situation, circumstance is really quite good.
It will count the percentage, 100 percent. Every count.
Our situation, the circumstance, particularly this country, many people are 60 percent, 7 percent,
80 percent.
90 percent, maybe, is really good. So therefore, I like that.
This is also not just come by itself.
It is a lot of cause and condition. A very close range and a far range.
All come, that means line up our condition, priority conditions.
Put joy and appreciation. And combine the joy and appreciation with both each other.
And we see all this, what we have. To every living beings.
They all made a plea from the suffering, the difficulty, trouble or so, all the struggling things.
And all those threaten, the frightening situation, really weak, they are sincerely there.
And we weak that. If we do that, that is known as essence of the spiritual or dharma in Buddhism.
That is dharma. Whatever, whatever the name we give, dharma or the spiritual or virtuous.
That is, this is nothing alien, that attitude, thought. It is our nature.
Your nature, my nature, we are touching to the core of our own true beings or true traders.
Not ignoring and looking outside somewhere distant.
We are making meaning for our lives, that moment.
Even then, the attitude of thought, we have that.
That is not just thinking, that energy goes.
The ripple effect of energy goes to you, bring calm, peace, joy.
Sun is bright, if we had that attitude, all kind of everything.
Even if the weather is not so good or whatever, it really brighten up.
So beautiful. Answer yourself.
It is not just I am making story or the Buddha said that I am repeating that.
This is true, negative true.
We are making meaning for our lives, with that.
So therefore, every morning, then after the big practices, during the practices,
or the raising of the wind force energies, all distance, we have that motivation.
It really goes so far and so deep and so strong to benefit from all our, to everything.
Now, raising up the wind force energy or the prayer flag is one of the great virtues.
In the Buddha's teaching, he said in order to get enlightenment,
what that means, to reveal our beautiful nature.
Buddha nature, we need accumulating true merits.
True merit, you all know this.
You all know, I know many of you all know this.
We all know, we all know, everyone.
True merit known as verse merit and accumulated merit.
If simply to explain of this true merit, the verse merit is simply
relaxing, calmly, calmly, peacefully, and meditating on the true nature,
the nature of our own mind.
Calm and peaceful, nothing particularly discriminating these and that things activity.
Just relaxing, calm and peaceful.
In a person, moment of preciousness, origin and status.
When we relax that, according to Buddha's teaching,
it will reveal, reveal the deep nature of our self
and the deep nature of the whole environment.
Exhale, we think so.
It brings the openness mind, precious mind,
and understanding of the nature of the infinite how things are.
It will bring, and that is known as verse to merit.
And then, second is accumulation merit.
Accumulation merit has beautiful motivation,
joy in appreciations, and both each other, any activity we do.
Thinking of that, and you do, such as activity,
beneficial activities, or calm and peaceful activity,
non-voluntary activity, then it is accumulating the accumulation merit,
such as raising of the brain flex, wind horse energy.
Wind horse energy is particularly what I call in the teaching said,
this is really so powerful, the brain, raising of the wind horse,
it's so powerful, powerful and so, so, it pulls the method or the skills.
Skills means activity that accumulated, accumulated merit very quickly, quickly.
This is when the energy is generally known as pull up,
skill means combined with wisdom and compassion.
So therefore, raising of this brain flex for the wind horse energy
is very powerful, speed up to activating our beautiful energies,
vitalities, and that.
And it deep down, what is energy now?
We're talking energy of the loving kindness and compassion.
Love and compassion, and wisdom, that is energy.
That is our essence, so it will really help to bring up.
This every talk will be detailed of this wisdom.
Those are known as, I'm sure many of you all, you all know this.
These, those are known as pile of wisdom.
Those are known as dharmadatta of wisdom,
and then merrell-like wisdom, equanimity of wisdom,
and distinctively understated wisdom,
and then all accomplished wisdom.
So it will rise up that wisdom.
This is not just wisdom, wisdom.
It will rise up compassion, kindness, open heart, warm heart.
When that raise up, what is demolishing?
The opposite of those are going away.
Those are put it fine, clean away.
One is the opposite of the dharmadatta of wisdom,
which is blocking the non-raising of the dharmadatta of wisdom.
It's ignorance.
The ignorance are subsided.
When dharmadatta of wisdom arises.
What is the opposite of merrell-like wisdom?
It is anger.
Merrell-like wisdom is a tiny, our, what's it called?
Anger is going down.
Anger is subsiding, always there is love.
Pushing down or clean away.
When anger goes out, what is coming out?
Talk to the merrell-like wisdom.
Love, kindness, compassion.
Love and kindness, compassion is not just a focus on one direction.
It's both direction, every angle is a direction.
That means bring more joy and appreciation to ourselves.
Feel happy, beautiful, and beautiful outside too.
Really brings beautiful understanding.
And that also means we have to bring more openness,
more courage, more commitment, more patience.
More bring that.
That's what is known as merrell-like wisdom.
Raising directly the anger is going down.
Where is it going?
To the great nature of the vastness.
There is even no trace that you can find where the anger went.
The magically arising merrell-like wisdom,
literally disappearing the anger of subsided anger or reducing anger according to our capabilities.
When we raise up the great wisdom, the equanimities.
The equanimity of wisdom.
What is going down?
Then it's going down all that donjars.
The arrogance.
The equanimity of wisdom, right?
Raising up in that moment.
The arrogance.
The superiority choose.
That is going down.
What is actually arrogance?
According to Buddhism,
arrogance is a combination of the ego clings very directly.
That I am the best.
I am the good.
I am the okey-dokey person.
I am quite okay.
Even we do all the different funny things,
still we can't be like, we always assured it to our own self by ego.
I am okay.
I am quite good.
That is known as arrogance.
The reality level, everyone is the ego.
There is no distinction between any of us.
We are on the same earth.
We breathe the same air.
We eat basically the same food that gives Mother Earth.
Our need is the same.
Our desire is the same.
Our biological structures are the same.
Our feeling is the same.
We like to be happy.
We don't like to be sad, suffering.
But arrogance, the ego clings.
The stubbornness of ego clings makes our self so.
Can't be like that.
Oh, it's okay.
I don't care.
All those attitudes arise because due to the ego and arrogance.
So, therefore, when the economic diversity shines,
the calm and peace, openness,
humbleness, humility,
those naturally become so practical.
Sensibles.
That is what all arises with this.
That, when it arises in the economic systems.
When we are arising in such a system,
such as distinguishing or distinctively understanding
the awareness of wisdom.
Or sometimes it's affiliated with the English discrimination of awareness of wisdom.
But it's not something discriminating these and their things.
It's distinguishable.
You understand exactly what things are.
Exactly, I understand this awareness.
See, things are as it is.
And that is good.
See, good as good, bad as bad.
Then mixture is Mexican and just a mundane, simple, basic knowledge
that understands not to bloat by ignorance,
not bloat by the ego clinging.
Bring on that realization.
That is known as distinctively understanding awareness of Muslims.
When that comes clearly,
our desire, the attachment, the grasping, clinging,
those hindrance are subsided.
Subsiding and bring more calm and peaceful.
And not just always cry me, not always end up.
Not always end up, not end up.
This and I need this, I want this, this and that.
Running day and night and then making ourselves tired
and making troubles to the others.
Peace, the whole time.
Feel the richness, the inner richness that is coming by.
By then subsiding of those attachment, grasping, clinging,
clinging and let up the saturation of this beautiful.
Then discrimination, awareness, Muslims.
Then we bring up the, such as the wisdom of all the accomplished Muslims.
What is subsiding or what is going on
is jealousness.
That is going on too.
And there is nothing need be jealous.
We are all accomplished.
We are accomplished.
Jealousness again is part of the tendencies
and part of the retinues of the ego clinging.
Always like competitors, always challenging,
always kind of like that, and always like restless, restless thinking.
Kind of like trying to challenge and try to suppress them.
Nothing need to be suppressed.
All is accomplished.
When you have the great wisdom of the dharmadattu
and the equanimity, all merry like wisdom
and all discrimination, just awareness that every fulfillment comes.
The fulfillment is there.
Right in this whole, this universal world.
The world is virtually in the way for us.
For us.
Disciplined, gardens, trees, mountains,
all is in for our usage or for our side.
There is nothing really we have to be kind of like jealousness.
Just relax, calm and peaceful.
Go in, appreciate it and feel great contaminant.
And then everything will be, have become and goes as magical disciplines.
So this is what I am talking about.
This prayer flex or the raising of wind horse energy,
it will raise up all of us in energies
and push down or the clear way or reduce it.
I should put you down. It's reducing.
Reducing, lowering and demolishing of all the opposite of that.
Although I have mentioned all those already.
And that is also according to Vaidyana.
It's connected with the colors.
Really it's a colorful prayer flex.
Colors are very much related to our nature of the mind,
our inner ritual at us and the Muslims.
Blue, for example, blue is connected with Dharmadatta Muslims.
And white is connected with the Meralik Muslims.
White color.
And such as then, yellow is connected to the economic Muslims.
And red is connected or symbolizing,
symbolizing distinctly under study of all the Muslims.
Green is connected or symbolizing.
It is connected or symbolized.
All are connected.
So they are connected.
This is not again made up of these colors and say,
"Oh, it is presented with."
According to the teaching, according to the Dhanthara,
inner Dhanthara, Esoterical Buddhism,
these colors are the reflection of our own mind.
Our own nature call it.
Reality in the teaching says that the color is not really outside.
This color is within our own mind.
Our nature of the mind.
Those words is shining.
Our awareness, even though we don't find awareness,
but it has multiple colors of natures.
Multiple natures.
It has all that multiple.
For example, when we look at the crystal,
we don't see the colors of the crystals,
except that Dhanthara Muslims.
The reality, it contains the colors.
At certain conditions, you can see the colors.
Similarly, the nature of the mind has all.
And this five words term is not outside.
It is again the nature of the mind.
So when we put up this brave eraser of the wind force and energy,
it is what we are really exploring,
re-glorifying reality level of our inner richness.
And that will also immediately help our energies,
our vitality.
And then it will also reflect external our performance.
And it will remove our obstacles,
diseases, sicknesses,
hindrance,
and it will firm the goal.
Therefore, in the Tibetan Buddhism,
every of those times we go to that, we do learn what is called.
Many people are asking to do the divineations.
Divineations.
Every time with those lamas or some who work,
not necessarily always lama,
but somebody does the divineation,
and they say,
"Oh, you need to do this and that thing."
And the rest of the brave likes.
I like to fulfill this goal and activity.
I'm not walking.
It's not my anxiety.
I'm waking.
I tried it so many times again and again,
but it's not work.
What I should do?
Can you help or do the divineation on this?
And when they do the divineation,
most of the time they say,
"Raise of the brave likes."
Brave likes.
Because it will clear away the obstacles
and smoothen it,
and clear away the passage of the two moving forward.
Whatever activity we do, perform it.
So because it's creating such activity.
That means the action, activity is open.
And that all our activity,
good, beneficial activity is really moving.
So therefore, for that reason,
all this is really so, so special
to raise of the brave likes.
Then I talk really of this again,
where, what place we should raise of the brave likes.
What kind of motivation we should have
to raise of the brave likes?
And what time of the two days of the brave,
when is the best time of the raise of the brave likes?
What is the benefit, even though I already mentioned it,
what is the benefit of this raising of the brave likes?
And so I talk really about that.
And the first one is two days of the brave likes.
Place, place, area.
Actually, we can raise of the brave likes anywhere.
Because Buddha's teaching and teaching of Murugan Mahasma
is really good.
Wherever you have space, wherever you are, it's nice.
And of course, Buddha's teaching is not disturbing to anyone.
That is important.
So when you raise of the brave likes,
then it will not disturb you.
You will never hold on anyone.
Well, any place is true.
Raise of the brave likes is excellent, is beautiful.
But the best one is what in the teaching said.
High mountains, open areas.
There's a lot of wind movements and kind of clear areas, open places.
So raise of the brave likes is really the best in the teaching said.
It's uplifting the environment.
It's benefiting to the environment.
And same time, it's clear passage,
and wind is like always the moment, the brave likes.
The brave likes, and that means it is that wind killing,
the energy of that brave like, to all of the universe of the world.
So therefore, high up in the mountain, or higher places, and raise up.
And that's what you, if you look in the Tibetan's house,
if you go to the Tibetan, or the Nepal, or the India,
there's most people, they put the brave likes up on the roof.
Those families, they put, was a higher place.
So in that way, this little land is one of the best places to put the brave likes.
With that, with motivation, with intentions, if we put brave likes.
It's so spacious.
And the time of the brave likes, any time, again,
any time is excellent, there's nothing really particular in that.
But again, if you have a choice, the springtime, this time, is really the best.
Because everything is what the Buddha is teaching,
it's an interdependent coordination, coordination.
It's all connected.
So if you put right cause and condition and circumstances,
that will all become more powerful.
The springtime is a time of lush, time of the growth,
time of the energies rising up.
So if we swing on that as like surfing board with the brave likes,
then our energy, vitality, good motivation, all will come up.
So this is also the time, this time, for example,
this during this memorial weekend, or this time,
it's really the best of the time.
Generally, as I said, any time is okay, definitely good.
Good, in particular, also in the teaching,
I'm good anytime, but if you have no choice, good anytime.
But if you have choice, times are like, such as like,
generally time, in the Pacific time of the days,
then such as, at the day, tender day, full moon,
and the new moon, back in the day, those are really good,
according to the teaching level.
And then springtime, as I said, is good.
Because it's lush, it's a growth, it's a progress,
that energy is coming in this bottom of the world, or not bottom of the world,
or only, not subsided, is really raising, kind of rushing that energy.
Energy, so every use is this.
So time is the perfect time of the putting it.
And the next one is then benefit of this.
Benefit of this practice, the brave likes, are the normals,
benefit of now and benefit of future.
Benefit of now is already mentioned,
removing the obstacles, obscuring disease,
sicknesses, fulfilling our goal in raising up our vitality, the energies.
Energies, really, that is it.
And ultimate benefit is then, according to the teaching,
it will lead us to the enlightenment,
because we are accumulated to merits.
Merit, accumulation merit, what's remaining combined,
so we will go inside, or simple itself, we make good karma.
So karma, karma is not only just a benefit of this lifetime,
but next lifetime, next lifetime, next lifetime.
So that is what it is.
Then what are the brave likes, what are those prayers here?
We say brave likes, brave likes, there.
But it is not just, I mean, I don't know exactly the meaning of the brave,
but it is a sacred word, sacred syllables,
are printed there on those perfect, simple colors,
accorded elements, accorded wisdom, is printed there,
that we are raising up with perfect time, perfect location,
and perfect motivation for that.
So it's sacred words, sacred teachings.
Sacred words, meanwhile, accorded Buddhism,
it is absolutely best upon the voice of love,
and compassion, kindness, to all living without any discriminations.
It is simply a song.
It is all the teachings of the Buddha's teachings,
the teachings of the Sothar's teachings, Mahayana's Sothar's teachings,
but regularly in and out of other teachings, in and out of other teachings.
There we are raising up.
We put it up as a perfect element,
and when you put it outside, it will be corrected by all the five elements,
sky, earth, fire, water, wind.
By regular wind, it will carry that fire.
And wind is the most powerful element among all the elements.
Everything is best accorded Buddhism.
It's wind, automatically, it's really standing on the wind.
We all stay.
The universe is standing on the wind,
and ourself is best on the wind, without physical situation.
So, it's branding to that everywhere, it's benefiting to everywhere.
It's branding, the element is the balancing,
and at a larger level, the environment is balancing,
and we can really do that.
Also, contributing is one of the best we can do
for the environment, the contribution, to do such this reflex.
So, it benefits too many levels, multiple levels.
And so, that's my brief introduction of the reflex.
Thanks a little bit, I don't know too much, but thank you.
Thank you, everyone.
Now, really, among all the duties that we do,
the practice of the wind, health, energy,
and the Kessai is the accorded teaching.
It's the best, really one of them.
I mean, generally, all, but as enlightenment is the same,
there's no difference between.
Everyone is in love and in compassion, kindness,
and Buddhism that embodies to all living beings.
There's no difference at all.
But however, even though there's no difference,
because due to their privilege, commitment,
and aspiration of the bodhicitta,
and then they slowly kind of highlight the performance
or the act that is beneficial that comes to those
who are connected to those duty of the Buddha.
For example, Mejichiri is known as the Buddha of the West.
Then he made the compassion, and the loving kind is not there.
And he says, "Oh, but there will be a highlight of the West."
Keresi, our local hero, is without compassion.
Again, it didn't mean Keresi don't have a mister.
It's just a highlight.
Similarly, Kessai is known as the very spellable
to raise up the wind force on energies,
or the vitality, and remove obstacles.
So therefore, we're doing these Kessai practices combined.
We're not talking.
Suppose we do Kessai practice a short time,
and then we do this break, Kessai,
and do the blessing of the brave flesh,
and that's not just of me.
We all do this blessing, put our integral little motivation
to this phrase, and put a blessing there,
and then we take that out, and you will have to raise up that.
And then again, as I said, when we raise up this brave flesh,
all prepared, and really have good motivation,
good intent, good thought, and thinking of every living being,
and by doing this, we will put peace and happiness, harmonious,
to all this whole world.
I'm sure throughout the centuries,
these troubles were always there, but these days,
it looks like so many kinds of battling of these troubles everywhere,
really wish that everyone has a very great wisdom,
and knowledge, and understanding, and respect,
and opportunity to everyone, to each other,
and others, and they're very calm, and peace, and harmonious,
and that in those inhabitants of this world.
And then in also the world itself,
also the whole element is completely perfectly balanced,
and so there's no natural disasters really come, and that,
and then we come right through that,
everyone also become the highest ultimate goal of the joy,
and peace, happiness, really wish in that.
So we do that to prepare those brave flesh,
and raise up this brave flesh, and as we can do,
and so that is the, so that's a brief introduction.
And now, we do this, again we do the Kesa practice here.
If you have this sadhana, and please open this sadhana, and we...